By the late fall of 1943.
the Western Allies
and the Soviet Union
have dealt
the Third Reich multiple blows.
The Allies have dislodged
the Germans
from North Africa and Sicily.
and are fighting
their way up the Italian boot.
While the Red Army. after victories
at Stalingrad and Kursk.
pushes West towards Germany.
The next step for the Allies
is the long anticipated
invasion of Northern Europe.
All wars change the world.
but none of them changed the world
like the Second World War did.
Japan's on the march.
Germany's on the march.
No-one can imagine the nightmare
they're about to unleash.
The most destructive war
in human history.
Suddenly the world
is turned upside down
and all hell is let loose.
The West is stunned
by the speed of the advance.
You get the Allies
led by The Big Three:
Roosevelt. Churchill. Stalin.
men who are dealing with
immensely complicated questions.
It's the biggest military
operation of human history.
The Allies have to come together.
not just militarily.
but industrial scale.
It's a global perspective.
They have to fight
in every climate from the Arctic
to the jungles of the Pacific.
to the deserts of Africa.
and the depths of the ocean.
But there was
no certainty of victory.
It was going to be
a horrific bloodbath.
We see humans
at their absolute worst.
how they treat
other human beings.
and we see them
at their absolute best.
willing to give their lives
so others might live.
World War II was a struggle
in which there could be
one victor and one vanquished.
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org
Rings over the mountains
by Baghdad and the Dead Sea.
Three planes from the supreme
headquarters of Britain.
the United States. and the USSR
bring to the capital of Persia the
leaders of the war against Germany.
This is for the three-way conference
so long expected.
so often postponed.
Tehran is a hugely
important conference.
It's the first time The Big Three
get together in person.
You've got Joe Stalin.
leader of the Soviet Union.
You've got Roosevelt.
President of the USA.
And you've got Prime Minister
Winston Churchill.
the warlord of the British Empire.
This is the central organising brain
for the Allied War effort.
And they're gonna establish
at this conference
the roadmap. the blueprint
for how they're gonna defeat the
axis in the Second World War.
Since the US entry into the war.
American and British
military strategists have debated
the best way to defeat Nazi Germany.
The British wanna prosecute
this war
as they have prosecuted past ones:
mastery of the sea.
control of commerce.
raids around the periphery
until the enemy simply collapses.
The British advocate
for campaigns in North Africa
and the Mediterranean.
but American military leaders.
along with the Soviets.
want the Allies to directly attack.
The Red Army's been carrying the
burden of the land war for years.
Millions. literally millions of
casualties on a thousand-mile front.
And so to the big concern for Stalin
is. "When are you going
to open a second front?"
The Americans are looking
at the map and saying.
"We can cross the channel
from Britain. hit France.
"Why wouldn't you just do that?""
For the British Empire.
they could think of nothing worse.
Churchill's entire generation
of British politicians
either fought in or commanded in the
First World War and were scarred.
And so the idea of
gambling everything
on a cross-Channel invasion
into France.
the exact place. by the way. that so
many terrible things happened
in trench warfare
back in the First World War.
all that mattered was
we don't do that again.
Winston Churchill is thinking.
"Maybe we land in Greece
and Yugoslavia.
"Maybe we push up through Slovenia.
"Maybe we land in Norway."
Stalin says. "I don't care
about any of this stuff.
"It's nonsense. Get in some ships.
"cross the English Channel.
land in France.
"and open up that proper second
front against the Germans."
If you think about
Allied leadership.
it looks as if it's The Big Three.
but what Roosevelt understands.
what Stalin understands.
and what Churchill.
to his great anguish.
is coming to understand
is that there's only room
for two people at the summit
and that the fate of his nation
was to be somewhat in eclipse.
At Tehran.
the Americans and the Soviets
finally get their way.
a big. American-dominated invasion
of Western Europe.
Operation Overlord.
Operation Overlord will be
a massive coordinated invasion
by air. land. and sea.
scheduled to launch in May. 1944.
a mere six months away.
If it succeeds. the Western
Allies and the Red Army
will be able to advance
on Germany from two fronts.
But who is to command
this enormous effort?
The obvious choice
is George Marshall.
George Marshall
is the army chief of staff
and he is unquestionably the
most respected military man.
certainly in the United States
and maybe even the world.
And so everybody
assumes that he's gonna get it.
What becomes clear. though.
is that Roosevelt realises
that he can't have Marshall
out of Washington.
He needs him too much to be. sort
of. running the entire war effort.
And so then the question is. "Who?"
Montgomery. Churchill's
star general. is absolutely certain
that there is one man perfectly
suited to be supreme commander
of the Allied effort.
and that is Montgomery himself.
But with the American
contribution in men and materiel
about to dominate the Allied effort.
it's clear that an American
must be placed in command.
President Roosevelt selects
General Dwight Eisenhower.
a protege of George Marshall
and the successful commander
of the campaigns
in North Africa and Sicily.
Roosevelt sees in Eisenhower
the kind of political skill
and savvy that's going
to be necessary
to keep the alliance together
and to pull off
what is going to be one of the most
high-risk military operations
in all of human history.
At the same time.
Eisenhower did not have
a huge CV of combat experience.
He hadn't served in France
during the First World War.
and so. many of his competitors
looking around going.
"How did this guy get the job?"
British General Montgomery maybe
encapsulates the criticism
of Eisenhower when he says.
"Nice chap. no soldier."
Hitler and his high command
know the Western Allies
are going to invade Northern Europe.
but they don't know when
and they don't know where.
Hitler is not surprised
that an invasion is coming.
He said so at the end of 1943.
"They'll be here next year. We have
to be ready to meet them."
In his own mind. he was willing
this cross-Channel invasion
because he said.
"Whenever they come
"and wherever they come.
we're gonna beat them."
An amphibious landing
is a very demanding operation.
and so he thinks he will
throw his reserves to the west
and push the Allies
back into the sea.
He'd then be able to win the war
by turning everything he has
against the Soviet Union
in the east.
Under the direction
of Field Marshall Erwin Rommel
the Germans accelerate the
construction of the Atlantic Wall...
...a network of bunkers.
minefields. and beach obstacles
stretching several thousand
miles from France to Norway.
Much of the work is performed
by conscripted French labour.
Rommel is already
a known commodity.
He's beloved by the German people.
He's young. he's unorthodox.
he's energetic.
He's a man very much
to the Fuhrer's taste.
He wakes up early.
he works hard all day.
He gets the job done.
And choosing Rommel tells the West.
"You've got your work
cut out for you."
By January. Operation Overlord.
the joint British American plan
to invade Northwest Europe.
has been largely mapped out.
The coast of Normandy is
chosen as the landing site
because of its long. flat beaches.
numerous access roads.
and proximity to the deep-water port
of Cherbourg.
When Eisenhower and his staff
take control of Overlord.
they look to expand the scale
and scope of the entire operation.
From the very beginning.
it was clear to Eisenhower
that a three-division invasion
in northern France
would not be adequate.
The Allies use six divisions
to invade Sicily.
Eisenhower realises
if you've got one shot at this.
you've gotta cross
this brutal stretch of water
and land on a heavily
defended coastline.
manned by one of
the best armies in history.
you need to bring
overwhelming force.
You go for the king.
you best not miss.
But he has to somehow get the
Brits to come around and agree.
His act of genius is
to name Montgomery
commander of the ground forces
in the invasions.
He says. "Monty. will you do this?"
Eisenhower says. "But I think
three divisions is a bit small.
"Shouldn't it be bigger?"
Monty says. "Should be much bigger."
It's a perfect example of
Eisenhower's leadership style.
He gets buy-in from people
and then get whatever he wants done. done.
Overlord increases to five
beaches and six divisions.
which delays the operation
for a month.
Eisenhower knows
that. in delaying Overlord.
he's running a risk. and the risk is
he's gonna use that extra month
for preparation.
But. of course.
so is his adversary.
With each passing day...
...German defences
are going to get stronger.
Field Marshall Erwin Rommel
believes
the first 24 hours of the invasion
will be decisive.
He will say to an aide.
"The fate of Germany
depends on the outcome.
"For the Allies.
as well as Germany.
"it will be the longest day."
Rommel thinks that you have
to defeat the Allied invasion
when it comes at the water's edge.
But the thing is. there's so many
points that the Allies can invade.
They've scattered
fortifications everywhere.
So he's. like. "How do I take this
incomplete Atlantic wall
"and fill in the gaps?"
You do it with things
that are relatively cheap.
like tank obstacles. like mines.
Rommel's strategy is to stop
the Allies on the beaches.
He can then bring in his panzers
where necessary.
Rommel has a lot of experience
fighting the Western powers.
He knows this isn't gonna be easy.
Every minute he prepares.
he believes is a minute
closer to a German victory.
In Britain. the Allies amass
resources for Operation Overlord.
The United States sends
soldiers. tanks. aircraft.
and large amounts of supplies.
You have to co-ordinate
this massive Allied coalition.
which is now dominated
by the Americans.
you know. on the supply side. right?
Gotta ship over all the oil.
all the materiel. all the vehicles.
The scale of Operation Overlord
is just enormous.
You are talking about nearly
7.000 vessels involved.
You are talking about tens of
thousands of artillery pieces.
You are talking about
hundreds of thousands of men.
But what that means is that Britain.
for the last two and a half years.
has just been turning into one
huge great big military camp.
To deceive the Germans.
the Allies devise
and execute a deception plan.
Operation Fortitude is a
false army operation created
to trick the Germans
into thinking the Allies
will land at Pas-de-Calais.
which is the shortest root
across the English Channel.
The elements that were involved
in convincing the Germans that the
attack was coming in another place.
another direction.
another location. it's massive.
False radio traffic.
the creation of false armies.
They used dummy vehicles.
balloons.
and rubber tanks. and aircraft.
This is all part
of the deception campaign
to keep the Germans guessing
until the last second.
Eisenhower hopes Fortitude
will prompt the Germans
to concentrate
their forces near Calais
rather than Normandy.
The Germans have about
three quarters of a million men
who are poised
to be able to mobilise
to wherever the Allies
invade in northern Europe.
And so he knows
that this is going to be a race.
It's going to be the Allies over
water and the Germans over land.
and the Germans are always going
to have an advantage
in moving over land.
And so Eisenhower needs
to slow them down.
The only tool that Eisenhower has
at his disposal...
...are the bombers.
Eisenhower knows
from previous experience
he can't pull off an amphibious
invasion and keep it ashore
without dominance in the air.
Unless Allied air power
is there for Eisenhower.
this landing is never gonna happen.
Starting in 1944.
Allied Air Force strategy
focuses on destroying the Luftwaffe.
so that troops can land in Normandy
without fear of German air attacks.
But Eisenhower also
wants to hit railways
and transportation
hubs throughout France.
Eisenhower wants
the roads destroyed.
he wants the bridges destroyed.
he wants the railway yards
destroyed.
He does not want one German unit
moving two miles down the road
without him having
to build another bridge.
And so Eisenhower says.
"Those very valuable
bomber formations
"need to be working to my plan."
Now. the bomber commander is. like.
"No.
"we've got our own
way of winning this war."
Everybody wants to support
the landings in Normandy.
but the Allied Air Forces argue
that the best way to do that
is to continue
with more heavy attacks on Germany.
This becomes a knockdown.
drag-out fight.
So Eisenhower. you know.
basically threatens to resign.
if he's not given control
over all the air forces.
He's fighting day in and day out
with the British. with the French.
with his own bosses
back in Washington
on every little detail of the war.
and everyone is throwing up
nothing but obstructions.
and he just doesn't have time
for this anymore. right?
He is at his wits end.
He needs overwhelming
strength to guarantee success
because you know what?
You've got one of history's
most effective armies.
Hitlers panzers.
who will be hurled
at those Allied landing forces.
so they can chop you down
in the shallows
and turn the waters
red with your blood.
Early spring 1944.
Supreme Allied Commander
Dwight Eisenhower
has now been given full command
of all Allied air forces.
In the end. he's got the air-power
weapon he needs
to attack the French
transportation system.
That's roads. railways. and bridges
that the Germans will use to move
forces to oppose the landings.
And so he wins. and we take that
for granted. but it wasn't easy.
He had to. like wrestle. with all
these powerful figures and egos.
not only within the US military.
but the British military as well.
It's another example of Eisenhower's
real quality as a leader.
And so for 90 days before D-Day.
you've got thousands of sorties.
Bombs away.
By P-47 and B-26 marauders
that are flying behind
the German lines...
...in the Pas-de-Calais in Normandy.
It's just absolutely punishing
the road and rail network.
Defending multiple fronts.
the resources of Hitler
and his Third Reich
are stretched thin.
For the Germans in 1944.
their last big trump card
are the tanks.
Rommel's plan is to deploy them
as close as possible to the beaches.
The advantage is that
you can bring them in
much quicker as reinforcements.
but this idea runs against
traditional German doctrine.
It's totally the opposite.
The orthodox approach
amongst German commanders
is to group your tank divisions
into a concentrated mass.
let the Allies land.
and then. as they stumble
into the French interior.
hit them at a time
and place of your choosing.
Rommel says. " Realistically we
can't manoeuvre against them
"when they come inland because
they have total air superiority."
The only person who can decide
which option will be the better one
is Hitler himself.
But Hitler never wants to give
too much power into one hand.
Suspecting that the Allies
will land near Calais.
Hitler spreads his panzers
along Northwestern France.
but he reserves operational
control for himself.
They can only be released into
combat by Hitler's express order.
which is probably the Achilles' heel
of that plan.
In the spring of 1944.
there are over two
and a half million troops
from multiple Allied nations
crowded into Southeast England.
The invasion would send
ashore combat-experienced troops
who had participated
in landings previously
as well as troops
who had never done it before.
So the way you
prepare is you have exercises.
You have rehearsals
just like in a play.
So a series of exercises
are undertaken
to include something
called Exercise Tiger.
Exercise Tiger is going to invade
a beach called Slapton Sands.
And Slapton Sands is
a British resort town
that. remarkably. looks exactly
like parts of the Normandy coast.
Secrecy is vital
for this training mission.
3.000 British citizens are
evacuated from the area.
Operational security
is absolutely paramount.
The Allies have to have tactical
surprise on the morning of D-Day.
so the Germans must be
completely blindsided.
It's a practice run for D-Day.
but from the start.
things go horribly wrong.
Because of a breakdown
in communication.
the navy fires on its own men.
As if that tragedy
wasn't bad enough.
the next day something
even worse happens.
In the middle of the night.
the LST's.
these large ships that have
personnel and tanks in them.
are preparing to do their
part in Exercise Tiger
and circling about to do
the second landing wave.
And then. all of a sudden.
a pack of German fast boats.
or E-boats.
stumbles upon these LST's.
And the Germans began firing.
and tracer bullets
are flying across the ships. and
some of the men on board thought.
"Wow. this is a pretty realistic
exercise."
And it wasn't really
until the torpedoes began
to explode against the sides
of the LST's
that they realise this is not an
exercise; this is an attack.
They sink three LST's.
which are really precious by this
point. They need every one.
More than 700 men were killed
in Exercise Tiger.
So this was a very costly
loss of life.
If a. you know.
well-controlled. dress rehearsal
goes this badly under the
best of possible conditions.
what's going to happen
when they can't just stroll
ashore on a British resort town.
but are being fired
at by German guns?
Operation Overlord has been
planned down to the closest detail.
but there's one crucial element
no-one can anticipate -
the weather.
They have a three-day window.
June 5th to June 7th.
If they delay the invasion
past that window.
the moon is no longer going to be
right for the airborne operation.
the tides are no longer
going to be right
for the landing forces.
and this delicate ballet
of air. ground. and naval forces
won't have the necessary
weather conditions
to co-ordinate and hit
the beach with full force.
Eisenhower and his staff rely
on Group Captain James Stagg
and his team of meteorologists...
...to provide the most
accurate advice possible.
The weather leading up to
the original D-Day is gorgeous.
and it's so good that it
almost feels like an omen.
It's two days before the invasion.
They're gearing up to launch
on June 5th as scheduled.
and James Martin Stagg
comes to Eisenhower
as part of the command conference
and says.
"There's been a turn in the weather.
A storm is a-brewin'."
It's just frankly terrible news.
15-foot waves in the Channel.
high winds.
unpredictable seas.
rolling fronts
coming in from all directions.
and it's just the last thing
they can possibly deal with.
Amphibious operations
are a total nightmare.
And on top of that. the English
Channel is a rough stretch of water.
You get winds that
howl up that Channel.
that kick up a swell that
make it impossible to operate.
you know. ships
near the coastline.
Eisenhower had to consider
what that meant.
And he said. "Well. we'll
postpone making a decision
"until four o'clock in the morning
when you'll know more."
Four o'clock in the morning
on the 4th.
Stagg came in looking not happy
and said "It's gonna be worse.
"We'll have to postpone
until the 6th of June."
The pressure's really there now
to. "Well. we really want to try and
get this done in this window."
or they've gotta wait again for
all the situations to coalesce.
the weather. and the tides.
and the moon.
It might be a few weeks.
It might be months.
And the problem is you've got all
these hundreds of thousands of men
in camps who've been sharpened
to this edge
of ready to go in and get their job.
Then you say. "Actually. no. sorry
lads. We're gonna back down again."
Even the Germans
think the conditions
are unsuitable for an invasion.
Rommel gets his weather report
on the 4th of June.
and doesn't look very good.
and he thinks there
will be no opportunities
for the Allies to land
for the coming days.
and so he decides to go to Germany
and celebrate his wife's birthday.
The problem. though. is
that the Germans
don't have meteorological stations
in the Atlantic.
in contrast to the Allies.
And where does the weather
in Europe mostly come from?
From the Atlantic.
Late in the evening on June 4th.
the Allies receive a report from
a weather station in Ireland.
Captain Stagg is
gonna come in and go. "Alright.
the weather conditions look
like they're going to improve.
"such that in the afternoon
on Tuesday. June 6th.
"you might be able to pull it off."
Eisenhower polls his commanders.
But the final decision
is his alone.
Eisenhower will ultimately reflect
on this 20 years afterward.
and he'll say that he felt like the
loneliest man in all of England.
And what must have run
through that man's mind
was. "Well. the gliders
are not gonna do well
"in winds this high. Paratroopers
are gonna be blown off course."
He had to recognise
all of the things
that are going to go wrong.
not things that might go wrong.
but definitely gonna go wrong.
"But at the same time.
I can't come back next month.
"I can't come back in August.
It's now or never."
And he is sitting there. listening
to the wind howling around...
...and he says. "OK. let's go."
Operation Overlord. D-Day.
is the largest amphibious invasion
in history.
and it's being attempted by
a coalition of many nations.
some of which have lived
under the Nazi yoke for years.
The whole world
awaits the outcome.
As the invasion got closer.
Eisenhower got more tense.
He's smoking four packs
of cigarettes a day.
He's barely sleeping.
He has nothing left to do.
but wait to hear
whether or not
he made the right call
in the middle of the night.
sleep deprived.
But the most important
thing though. I think.
he does in that period is.
he goes out and personally visits
the 101st Airborne.
The 101st Airborne.
along with the 82nd Airborne.
and the British 6th Division
will be the first to land
behind enemy lines.
The job of the Airborne
is to seize the causeways
and cover the flanks
of the landing troops.
They will be the first soldiers
to fight the Germans in Normandy.
Eisenhower. with no fanfare.
just walks among
all these young men...
...all of whom are no older.
really. than his own son.
and he makes a point
of looking each one of them
in the eye
as he shakes their hand.
He gets an estimate
that about 50%
of the paratroopers
are gonna be killed.
And so. as he's shaking hands.
every other soldier
is someone who he has reason to
believe he has sent to their death.
The most important thing
he could do in that moment
was just be there for them.
He spends all night doing that.
goes up to the roof nearby.
watches the whole thing take off.
That's how he begins D-Day.
Under a full moon...
paratroopers.
including The 101st Airborne.
start dropping behind enemy lines.
Before dawn landing crafts
are lowered into the water.
and troops start to board.
At sunrise. a fleet of warships
launch a naval barrage.
Ultimately. the ground troops
are gonna land on five beaches:
two American beaches.
Omaha and Utah;
a Canadian beach. Juno;
and then Gold and Sword.
the British beaches.
They're then gonna try and
link up those different beaches...
...and then push inland to take on
and destroy the might
of the German army in France.
The morning of June 6th.
the weather patterns
are still chopping about
and the wind is still blowing.
It's not an ideal situation
to start ploughing these boats
towards the coast there.
Right from the jump.
the weather's a huge issue.
There's a six foot swell on D-Day.
The waves are swamping
over the sides.
You're standing in
freezing cold water.
You are there with 30 other guys.
If one vomits. you all vomit.
Sea spray is lashing
into your face there.
You can't see.
Your eyes are stinging.
The longer that goes on. the more
you are thinking to yourself.
"What is gonna happen
when that ramp goes down?"
Omaha is the largest
of the beaches.
a strip of the Normandy coast
six miles wide.
It's different
from all the other beaches
in that it's almost
like an amphitheatre.
You know. you've got these high
bluffs overlooking the beach.
almost like a extended bowl.
You'd be coming in. grey skies.
smoke. noise. ramp would drop.
and then there's this just
absolute mass of fire.
85 machine guns laying down
100.000 rounds a minute.
People start getting shot
and killed.
You see dead people
floating in the water.
You don't run up the beach.
You stagger up the beach.
Guys are trying to clear obstacles.
You're trying to move ahead.
Your senses are overwhelmed with
all the things going around you.
That first wave is getting mowed
down in great numbers.
It's roughly 85% killed
or wounded in the assault waves
on Omaha.
Eisenhower is receiving
only intermittent reports.
except. of course.
that on Omaha Beach.
it's not going as planned.
While he tried to project
a confident demeanour.
you know that inside him
he's just roiling with concern.
Failure is another Dunkirk.
Failure's the loss
of all your equipment.
your troops being marched off
into captivity.
If everything goes wrong.
it means a longer war.
The day before the landings
General Eisenhower.
knowing the risks
and understanding
the responsibility.
penned a brief note.
"My decision to attack was based
upon the best information available.
"The troops did all that bravery
and devotion to duty could do.
"If any blame or fault
is attached to the attempt.
"it is mine alone."
On the morning
of the Normandy invasion.
the first wave of American troops
at Utah Beach
land almost a mile south
of their target...
...but quickly regroup and
manage to take the beach
and push inland.
The British landings at Gold
and Sword beaches
go better than expected.
But at Juno Beach.
the first wave of Canadian troops
meets tough German resistance.
And at Omaha Beach. rough seas
and intense German fire
wreak havoc
on the first American troops.
But more men are on their way.
The German defenders
on the Atlantic wall.
they look out that morning.
and they're stunned
by what they see.
They see the biggest fleet
ever gathered for an invasion.
The Germans all talked about
how they were so densely packed.
It looked like you could just walk
from ship to ship.
For the average German soldier
on D-Day.
the experience
is something totally new.
This naval bombardment...
...it really shakes up the psyche
of the German soldiers.
There are two crucial
German command failures.
One is that Rommel isn't there.
He's back in Germany
celebrating his wife's birthday.
When he hears
that the landing has happened.
he says something
along the lines of.
"How could I have been so stupid?"
Even more important is Hitler.
The morning of the invasion.
June 6th. 1944.
Adolf Hitler is asleep.
But nobody will dare wake him up.
even though word has come in
about this invasion starting.
So in the crucial
five or six or seven hours
when the Germans might have landed
some quick blow against the Allies.
those Panzer divisions
in the central reserve
that can only be released into
combat by Hitler's express order
are pretty much
without a commander.
As a consequence.
the German's reactions on D-Day
end up a big mess.
By midday. the troops at Gold.
Sword. Juno.
and Utah have started
to push inland.
and momentum finally shifts
at Omaha Beach.
The sheer scale of the
invasion helps turn the tide.
but it also comes down
to individual acts of bravery.
At Pointe du Hoc
US Army Rangers scale
100-foot cliffs under fire.
At Utah Beach. Brigadier
General Teddy Roosevelt Jr.
the son of former president
Theodore Roosevelt.
leads a division that lands
south of the target.
They came ashore and realised
that they were in the wrong bit.
And he said. "To hell with it.
The war starts here."
Roosevelt's son.
Captain Quentin Roosevelt II.
is in the first landing wave
at Omaha.
They're the only father son duo
who will land on the beaches
that day.
Corporal Waverly Woodson.
a medic with the 320th
Barrage Balloon Battalion.
is wounded before
he even hits the beach.
But he will treat almost
200 members of the US Army.
Navy. and British Navy
as they come ashore
on Omaha Beach.
all the while under intense mortar
and machine gun fire.
By the end of the day
on June 6th.
the Allies have secured
all five beaches
and have pushed inland.
In the coming days. they will link
up with the airborne forces
to create a continuous.
connected front along the coast.
It was Eisenhower who meshed
all of the different nationalities.
He brought them together.
and Eisenhower deserves
a lot of credit.
He's accountable.
He's responsible.
That's what leaders do
in good times and bad.
Right man for the job.
Eisenhower understands.
probably better than anyone.
the real fighting on the continent
of Europe is about to begin.
And at the same time.
there's a ray of hope.
Allied victory is increasingly
going to become possible.
The US theory of
how you can wage war
has now been proven correct.
You can have
a multinational alliance
pull off the most complex
military operation
the world had ever seen.
It's not just the infantry.
all the airmen set the conditions.
It's all the Coast Guardsmen
and the sailors that drew the ships.
It's all the people who manufactured
all the stuff back in Detroit.
It's a global effort
to make D-Day work.
- My fellow Americans.
in this poignant hour.
I ask you to join
with me in prayer.
Almighty God. our sons.
pride of our nation.
this day have set upon
a mighty endeavour.
a struggle to preserve our republic.
our religion. and our civilisation.
and to set free
a suffering humanity.
President Roosevelt
says in his D-Day prayer.
"Our forces will be thrown back.
"Their road will be long and hard."
But we shall
return again and again.
And we know that by thy grace
and by the righteousness
of our cause.
our sons will triumph.
On D-Day. the 101st Airborne.
just hours after being addressed
by General Eisenhower.
parachuted into occupied France.
Despite being scattered
across enemy territory.
these men cleared the path
for American forces
to emerge off Utah Beach and
begin the advance on Germany.
A second front is firmly established
on the continent of Europe.
In the Pacific war.
the boundaries are enormous.
ranging through Asia and
into numerous remote islands
across the ocean.
Attacking this new front
will require the most advanced
aircraft ever built.
Subtitles by Sky Access Services
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today